.ig
$Id$

$Log$
Revision 1.1  2006/12/15 06:46:29  trevor
Perhaps we should document samiam.


Copyright (C) 2006 Trevor Caira

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be included in translations
approved by Trevor Caira instead of in the original English.

..

.Dd $Date$
.Dt SAMIAM 1
.Os 
.Sh NAME
.Nm samiam
.Nd sam assembly language interpreter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Ar samfile ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a fast, portable, and mostly compatible replacement for David Levitan
and Ivan Gyurdiev's
.Xr SaM 1 .
This manual documents the standard frontend to
.Xr libsam 3 ,
intended for general purpose interpreting. For API documentation and
details on the samiam implementation of the sam programming language, see
.Xr libsam 3 .
.Pp
The design of this interpreter does not mirror SaM. Instead, the
interpreter has been packaged as a shared library, accessibly both
programmatically using the
.Xr libsam 3
API and its bindings, and through frontends such as the one documented
by this manual. This frontend is intended as a simple general-purpose
interface to the interpreter.
.Pp
Unlike SaM,
.Nm
is generally does not accept faulty assembly code, in particular, code
which makes illegal accesses to freed or unallocated memory. This is
intentional; the original purpose of
.Nm
was to find bugs in a compiler which targets sam.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "samfile"
.It Fl q
Suppress non-fatal errors. Useful for batch execution.
.It Ar samfile
Read the file containing sam instructions, typically one per line,
though will accept commands delimited alternatively as documented in
.Xr libsam 3 .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
returns the exit status of the sam program on success, 253 if there was
an error parsing the command line arguments, 254 if there was a problem
parsing the sam source, and 255 if no return value could be extracted
from the sam program, i.e. the stack was empty on exit. Note that
the only way to distinguish the source of a 253, 254 or 255 error code
is by inspecting any errors or warnings emitted during execution.
.Sh EXAMPLES
See tester.pl in the source distribution for an example application of
.Nm .
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Trevor Caira and Jimmy Hartzell.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006 Trevor Caira and Jimmy Hartzell.
.Pp
This is free software. See COPYING in the source distribution for the
copyright notice.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr SaM 1 ,
.Xr gsam 1 ,
.Xr libsam 3
.Sh BUGS
See the BUGS file provided with the source distribution to see the
current known limitations of
.Nm .
